EM9305 Software Development Kit 
Evaluation License and Commercial License Agreement
the "Agreement"

between 

EM Microelectronic-Marin SA, Rue des Sors 3, CH-2074 Marin, Switzerland
"EM"

and

"Licensee" as defined under section 1 of this Agreement.

________________________________________________


1.	Acceptance / Agreement - By accessing, installing, copying or using the Licensed Materials (as defined under section 7 below), by actively accepting this Agreement by clicking "I Accept" or a similar acknowledgement or by otherwise accepting this Agreement, Licensee a) warrants and represents that Licensee has obtained all authorizations and other applicable consents required empowering Licensee to enter into this Agreement on behalf of her/his employer, b) agrees that her/his employer is legally bound by this Agreement and c) agrees to be legally bound by this Agreement on her/his own behalf. Licensee also agrees that this Agreement is enforceable like any written agreement physically executed by Licensee. However, this Agreement does not supersede any pre-existing written agreement between EM and the Licensee, which would already cover the commercial use of the Licenses Materials. Under this Agreement, the term “Licensee” shall encompass the person accepting this Agreement as well as her/his employer.

2.	Evaluation License - Subject to the terms and conditions, restrictions, disclaimer and limitation of liability set forth in this Agreement and provided that Licensee has obtained the Licensed Materials directly from EM, EM grants strictly to Licensee, without the right to sublicense, a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable, limited worldwide license to use the Licensed Materials during the Evaluation Period defined under section 3 below, for the sole purpose of evaluating the Licensed Materials for use with EM9305 integrated circuits manufactured by EM or Licensee products that use or incorporate EM9305 integrated circuits manufactured by EM. Evaluation of any software applications generated using the Licensed Materials on any other devices is a material breach of this Agreement. The Licensed Materials may not be used for any commercial, industrial or other purpose for financial benefit of Licensee, its affiliates and/or its customers, other than the evaluation purpose stated above. In addition, Licensee understands and agrees that Licensee remains exclusively responsible and liable for using Licensee’s independent analysis, evaluation, and judgment in designing and developing Licensee’s applications, products and services. 

3.	Evaluation Period - Licensee may evaluate the Licenced Materials during a period of one (1) year (the “Evaluation Period”) starting from the acceptance of this Agreement by Licensee according to section 1 of this Agreement. The parties may mutually agree in writing to extend the Evaluation Period or to enter into a commercial license agreement covering the use of the Licensed Materials. 

4.	Commercial License - On the condition that Licensee purchases from EM, under EM’s General Terms of Sale or under a written supply agreement, EM9305 integrated circuits released for production, the license granted under section 2 above is replaced by the following one: Subject to the terms and conditions, restrictions, disclaimer and limitation of liability set forth in this Agreement and provided that Licensee has obtained the Licensed Materials directly from EM, EM grants strictly to Licensee, without the right to sublicense, a non-exclusive, non-transferable, revocable, limited worldwide license to use the Licensed Materials during the License Period defined under section 5 below solely and exclusively to develop and distribute binary and executable software that executes solely and exclusively on the EM9305 integrated circuits manufactured and released for production by EM. Licensee shall clearly notify third parties regarding the source of the binary and executable software it develops. Use of any software applications generated using the Licensed Materials on any other devices than the EM9305 integrated circuits manufactured by EM, is a material breach of this Agreement. In addition, Licensee understands and agrees that Licensee remains exclusively responsible and liable for using Licensee’s independent analysis, evaluation, and judgment in designing and developing Licensee’s applications, products and services. 

5.	Commercial License Period - Under the terms and conditions of section 4 above, Licensee may use the Licenced Materials starting from the first purchases of EM9305 integrated circuits released for production, until one (1) year after the last shipment of EM9305 integrated circuits from EM to Licensee (the “License Period”). The parties may mutually agree in writing to extend the License Period.

6.	Other restrictions - Licensee shall not, and shall not assist or permit any third party to, directly or indirectly, use the Licensed Materials in, with or for: (i) life-critical medical equipment, products or services, (ii) military, armament, nuclear or aerospace applications or environments; or (iii) automotive applications unless specifically designated by EM as automotive-grade. Moreover, except as otherwise expressly permitted under this Agreement, Licensee shall not, and shall not assist or permit any third party to, directly or indirectly: (a) copy, modify, assign, sell, sublicense, lease, encumber or otherwise dispose of, transfer or distribute, or attempt to transfer or distribute, the Licensed Materials or any portion thereof; (b) use the Licensed Materials independently of the EM9305 integrated circuit or in any service bureau capacity including, without limitation, using such Licensed Materials to process any data for any third party; (c) remove any copyright, trademark, patent or other proprietary notices from the Licensed Materials or any portion thereof; or (d) unlock, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise translate any binary or object code versions of the software programs included in the Licensed Materials to a human-perceivable form.

7.	Licensed Materials - Licensed Materials under this Agreement means and includes the EM9305 Software Development Kit (SDK) and any upgrades, updates, or plug-ins thereto, together with any information, data, diagrams, schematics, layouts, component lists / bill of materials, text, contents, materials and documentation (collectively, “Documentation”) that accompany the Licensed Materials in "on-line", electronic and/or physical Documentation and that may only be used in strict accordance with the terms of this Agreement.

8.	Intellectual Property Title - The Licensed Materials are protected by intellectual property laws and treaties. EM and/or its licensors retain all title and ownership of the Licensed Materials, including all intellectual property rights in the Licensed Materials (and Documentation) and all copies of the same. EM and its licensors hereby reserve all rights and licenses not explicitly granted to Licensee herein.

9.	Utilization of EM’s name - The name "EM Microelectronic-Marin SA" or that of any of the EM affiliated companies shall not be utilized to endorse or promote products derived from the License Materials, without prior written permission of EM. 

10.	Open Source Components - Notwithstanding the license grant agreed under this Agreement, Licensee further acknowledges that certain components of the Licensed Materials may be covered by so-called "open source" software licenses ("Open Source Components"). "Open source" software licenses means any software licenses approved as open source licenses by the Open Source Initiative or any substantially similar licenses, including without limitation any license that, as a condition of distribution of the software licensed under such license, requires that the distributor makes the software available in source code format. To the extent required by the licenses covering Open Source Components, the terms of such license will apply in lieu of the terms of this Agreement. To the extent the terms of the licenses applicable to Open Source Components prohibit any of the restrictions in this Agreement with respect to such Open Source Components; such restrictions will not apply to such Open Source Component. Licensee will not, without the express prior written consent of EM, incorporate, combine, or distribute any Licensed Materials, or any derivative thereof, with any additional Open Source Components or use any additional Open Source Components in the development of products in such a way that would cause the Licensed Materials, or any derivative thereof, to be subject to all or part of the license obligations or other intellectual property related terms with respect to such Open Source Components.

11.	License to Improvements - In the event that Licensee discloses to EM any enhancements or modifications to the Licensed Materials (“Improvements”), then Licensee hereby grants to EM a worldwide, irrevocable, perpetual, fully paid-up, royalty-free, non-exclusive, transferable license, with the right to sublicense through multiple tiers, to:  (a) store, copy, use, modify and create derivatives of any Improvements; (b) incorporate such Improvements disclosed to EM and their derivatives into the Licensed Materials; and (c) distribute such Improvements and their derivatives in both source and binary form.

12.	Beta Software - Licensee may be granted access to all or part of the Licensed Materials in the form of software which is still undergoing testing and has not yet been released as a final version (“Beta Software”). Licensee acknowledges and agrees that: (a) Beta Software may behave in unexpected ways, not operate properly or be fully functional; (b) it may not be possible to make the Beta Software fully functional; (c) EM retains the right to modify, extend, reduce or remove any feature or specification of the Beta Software at any time and without justification nor liability; (d) EM is under no obligation to release a final version of the Beta Software; and (e) EM has the right to unilaterally abandon any further development of the Beta Software, at any time and without any obligation or liability to Licensee.

13.	Feedback - Should Licensee provide feedback to EM regarding the features or functionality of Beta Software or other Licensed Materials, Licensee will not earn or acquire any rights or licenses in the Beta Software or Licensed Materials or in any EM intellectual property rights on account of these terms and conditions or Licensee’s performance under these terms and conditions, even if EM or its licensor incorporates any feedback Licensee provided into the Beta Software or Licensed Materials. To the extent necessary, Licensee therefore hereby irrevocably agrees to assign and transfer to EM or its licensor (as applicable) all of Licensee’s rights, title, and interests in and to all feedback Licensee provides, including all intellectual property rights therein.

14.	Confidentiality - Licensee agrees that the Licensed Materials (including, but not limited to, the Documentation) and underlying algorithms, know-how and ideas relating to the Licensed Materials are confidential and proprietary information belonging to EM and/or its licensors. Except as expressly and unambiguously allowed herein, Licensee will hold in confidence and not use or disclose any such confidential and proprietary information for any purpose and will cause its employees and, as the case may be, any third party(ies) to abide by these confidentiality obligations in writing prior to any access, disclosure or providing.  Licensee will implement and use security measures that are generally accepted in the industry and are adequate to prevent the unauthorized access to, or use of, such confidential and proprietary information.

15.	Upgrades, Updates and Plug-ins - If an upgrade, update, or plug-in to the Licensed Materials replaces or supplements a previously granted Licensed Materials, Licensee may use such upgraded Licensed Materials only in strict accordance with the terms of this Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in the Agreement shall be construed as an obligation for EM to maintain or support the Licensed Materials or to provide upgrades, updates or plug-ins to the Licensed Materials.

16.	No Warranty - Disclaimer - The Licensed Materials are provided "as is" and without any support. EM and its licensors make no warranties or representations, express or implied, including any implied warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or use, lack of viruses, accuracy or completeness of responses, results, and lack of security. EM and its licensors disclaim any warranty of title, quiet enjoyment, quiet possession, and non-infringement of any third party intellectual property rights with regard to the Licensed Materials or their use. The entire risk as to the quality and performance of the Licensed Materials lies with Licensee. Should the Licensed Materials prove defective, EM and its licensors do not assume any costs related to servicing, repair or correction. Nothing contained in this Agreement will be construed as a warranty or representation by EM, its licensors and/or EM’s affiliated companies to maintain production of any EM device or other hardware or software with which the Licensed Materials may be used. Licensee acknowledges and agrees that the Licensed Materials have not been tested by or on behalf of EM or its licensors, or certified by any government agency or industry regulatory organization or any other third party organization. Therefore, Licensee commits to and agrees that prior to using the Licensed Materials in or with any commercial product that Licensee will thoroughly test the product and the functionality of the Licensed Materials in or with that product and be solely responsible for any problems or failures. 

17.	Limitation of liability of EM - In no event shall EM nor its affiliated companies, licensors, third party providers, representatives, agents and assigns (collectively, the “EM Parties”) be liable for any direct, indirect, incidental, special, punitive, exemplary, or consequential damages (including, but not limited to, procurement of substitute goods or services; loss of use, data, equipment, systems, software, technology, services, goods, content, materials or profits; business interruption or other economic loss or any claims by third parties (including but not limited to any defense thereof) however caused and on any theory of liability, whether in contract, strict liability, or tort (including negligence or otherwise) arising in any way out of the use of the Licensed Materials, even if advised of the possibility of such damage. Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary, in no event will the EM Parties aggregate liability under this Agreement or arising out of Licensee’s use of the Licensed Materials exceed one hundred Swiss Francs (CHF 100.-).

18.	Indemnity by Licensee - Licensee agrees to promptly defend, indemnify and hold EM Parties harmless from and against any and all claims, costs, damages, expenses (including reasonable attorney's and professional fees as incurred), liabilities, and losses, including without limitation: (a) any claims directly or indirectly arising from or related to Licensee’s use, access, incorporation, modification, copying, development, creation of derivative works, disclosure, exploitation, distribution or providing of the License Materials, or any intellectual property rights related thereto; (b) Licensee’s violation or infringement of any third party rights, including intellectual property rights; and/or (c) breach of this Agreement. Licensee shall not, without the prior written consent of the EM Parties, settle or compromise any claim, or permit a default or consent to the entry of any judgment in respect thereof, unless such settlement, compromise, or consent includes, as an unconditional term thereof, the giving by the claimant to the EM Parties an unconditional release from all liability in respect of such claim.

19.	Expiration and Termination - The Agreement shall expire at the end of the Evaluation Period or the License Period (if any), whichever is later. Without prejudice to any other rights, EM may also terminate this Agreement immediately, upon notice, if Licensee fails to comply (in the sole discretion of EM) with any of the terms of this Agreement. At the expiration or termination of this Agreement, Licensee shall: (i) immediately cease all use of the Licensed Materials; (ii) destroy all copies (including the Documentation, but not limited to, electronic copies) of the Licensed Materials, including all portions and derivatives thereof; and (iii) certify each of same in writing to EM within 30 days of expiration or termination.

20.	Export Control and Sanctions - The Licensed Materials may be subject to national and international export control and sanctions laws and regulations. Licensee agrees that it shall not, either directly or indirectly, export, re-export, release or transfer (including, without limitation, by permitting the download), in breach of the applicable export control and sanctions laws and regulations, the Licensed Materials to any country, region(s), company, organisations or person(s) subject to export restrictions or sanctions under the applicable laws and regulations. In particular, Licensee represents and warrants that Licensee (i) is not located in, a national or resident of, or under the control of Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria or any other country subject to a U.S. goods embargo; (ii) are not on the U.S. Treasury Department’s List of Specially Designated Nationals or the U.S. Commerce Department’s Denied Persons List or Entity List; and (iii) will not use the Licensed Materials or transfer the Licensed Materials for use in any military, nuclear, chemical or biological weapons, or missile technology end-uses. Any export of Licensed Materials made by EM shall not be construed as a representation or warranty regarding the proper export classification for such Licensed Materials or whether an export license or other documentation is required for the exportation of such materials. Licensee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless EM from and against all damages (including reasonable attorneys' fees) resulting from Licensee’s failure to comply with this section 20.

21.	Audit Right - At EM's request, and within thirty (30) calendar days after receiving notice, Licensee shall permit an internal or independent auditor selected by EM to have access, no more than twice each calendar year (unless the immediately preceding audit revealed a discrepancy) and during Licensee’s regular business hours, to all of Licensee’s equipment, records, and documents which may contain information regarding the use of the Licensed Materials. Licensee shall keep full, complete, clear and accurate records with respect to Licensee’s use of the Licensed Materials for a period beginning with the then current calendar year and going back three (3) years.

22.	No Technical Support - EM and its licensors are under no obligation to install, maintain or support the Licensed Materials.

23.	Insurance - Licensee represents and warrants that it has, and will continue to maintain, sufficient general and product liability insurance to fully cover Licensee’s risks and responsibilities hereunder. Upon reasonable request, Licensee will provide EM with an evidence of the foregoing insurance.

24.	Independent Development - Nothing in this Agreement will impair EM’s right to develop, acquire, license, market, promote, or distribute products or technologies that perform the same or similar functions as, or otherwise compete with, any products or technologies that Licensee may develop, produce, market, exploit, distribute or in any way provide.

25.	Notice to United States Government End Users - If Licensee is the U.S. Government or if Licensee is a contractor or subcontractor (at any tier) of the U.S. Government and is accessing the Licensed Materials for use by the U.S. Government or in connection with any contract or other transaction with the U.S. Government, Licensee acknowledges that by using the Licensed Materials, the Licensed Materials and all associated software and technology of EM and its licensors qualify as commercial computer software and that any associated documentation qualifies as commercial computer software documentation within the meaning of the applicable acquisition regulations. The terms and conditions of this Agreement are fully applicable to the U.S. Government’s use of the Licensed Materials and associated software and documentation, and shall supersede any conflicting terms or conditions, unless otherwise prohibited by federal law or regulation.

26.	Entire Agreement - This is the entire Agreement between Licensee and EM and supersedes any prior agreement between the parties related to the subject matter of this Agreement. No amendment or modification of this Agreement will be effective unless in writing and signed by duly authorized representatives of EM.

27.	Applicable Law and Place of Jurisdiction - This Agreement is exclusively governed by and construed in accordance with Swiss law, without giving effect to Switzerland's rules on conflict of law and regardless of the place or places of their physical execution and performance. Furthermore, the application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods (11 April 1980) is explicitly excluded.
Any dispute arising out of, or in connection with, this Agreement shall be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the competent courts of the city of Neuchâtel, Switzerland. Notwithstanding the foregoing, EM is also authorized to bring a claim against the Licensee where the Licensee has its registered offices.